Compilation:

The package currently  consist of a single C  source  file which usually
will  be compiled for  dynamic linkage, but  can also be compiled into a
new Tcl  interpreter  with  the  TclMPI  package  included (required  on
platforms like Cray XT, XE, or XK machines that need static linkage) and
two Tcl script files tclmpi.tcl and pkgIndex.tcl,  that hook it into the
Tcl  interpreter.   The corresponding  commands   for Linux  and  MacOSX
systems are included in the provided makefile.  All  that is required to
compile the  package is an installed  Tcl development system for Tcl 8.4
or   higher and reasonably   well  MPI-2 compatible installation.   When
compiled for a  dynamically loaded  shared object (DSO),  MPI has  to be
compiled and linked as shared libraries (this is  the default OpenMPI on
Linux, but your mileage may vary).  To update the documentation you will
also need doxygen 1.8 or later and its prerequistes ((pdf)latex, dvi2ps,
ghostscript, graphviz) installed.

As of May 25  2012 the code has  been  tested on  32-bit and 64-bit  x86
Linux platforms with OpenMPI, MVAPICH, Cray MPT and SGI-MPT, Tcl 8.4 and
8.5.  OpenMPI and MVAPICH complete all tests, however MVAPICH fails some
due to differences in the error messages (needs to  be fixed in the test
suite).  SGI-MPT has problems with MPI_COMM_NULL (segfault).

To compile the package adjust the settings in  the Makefile according to
your platform, MPI and Tcl installation.  Typical settings for Linux and
MacOSX systems are included as comments  in the provided makefile.  Then
type   "make" to compile the   _tclmpi.so file; type  "make tclmpish" to
compile  the extended Tcl shell interpreter.   With "make check" you can
run  the integrated unit    tests to see if    everything is working  as
expected and "make check-static" will do the  corresponding test for the
extended  shell  binary..   With  "make  doc" the  documentation  can be
updated and "make all" will run all steps together.

Installation:

To install you can create a  directory, e.g.  /usr/local/libexec/tclmpi,
and  copy the files _tclmpi.so,  tclmpi.tcl and pkgIndex.tcl into it. If
you     then     use     the    command   'set       auto_path   [concat
/usr/local/libexec/tclmpi $auto_path]' in  your .tclshrc or  .vmdrc, you
can load the  tclmpi wrappers  on demand simply   by using the   command
'package require tclmpi'. For the   static executable you only need   to
copy  the files  tclmpi.tcl  and  pkgIndex.tcl  and then   copy tclmpish
somewhere where it is in  your path. In  that case the startup file will
be called .tclmpishrc or tclmpi.rc if you compile on windows.
